New random_sampler aggregation for sampling documents in aggregations (#84363)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/aggregations/bucket/random-sampler-aggregation.asciidoc

          "percentiles": {
            "field": "taxful_total_price"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----
// TEST[setup:kibana_sample_data_ecommerce]

[[random-sampler-top-level-params]]
==== Top-level parameters for random_sampler

`probability`::
(Required, float) The probability that a document will be included in the
aggregated data. Must be greater than 0, less than `0.5`, or exactly `1`. The
lower the probability, the fewer documents are matched.

`seed`::
(Optional, integer) The seed to generate the random sampling of documents. When
a seed is provided, the random subset of documents is the same between calls.

[[random-sampler-inner-workings]]
==== How does the sampling work?

The aggregation is a random sample of all the documents in the index. In other
words, the sampling is over the background set of documents. If a query is
provided, a document is returned if it is matched by the query and if the
document is in the random sampling. The sampling is not done over the matched
documents.

Consider the set of documents `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`. Your query matches `[1, 3, 5]`
and the randomly sampled set is `[2, 4, 5]`. In this case, the document returned
would be `[5]`.

> This type of sampling provides almost linear performance in relation to sampling
> probability.

Reviewer: I know you qualify this below, but I think I would reword this slightly so it is a bit more explicit about the performance improvement. Also strictly linear in probability would imply proportional to p not 1 / p, so I would instead reference the reduction in sample document size.
```suggestion
This type of sampling provides almost linear improvement in query latency in relation to the amount
by which sampling reduces the document set size.
```

> by which sampling reduces the document set size.

Reviewer 2: It seems like this statement summarizes the information in the graph; if so, let's add a colon to denote that relationship:
```suggestion
by which sampling reduces the document set size:
```

image::images/aggregations/random-sampler-agg-graph.png[Graph of the median speedup by sampling factor,align="center"]

> Above is the typically seen speed up for the majority of aggregations. For certain aggregations, the speed up may not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Above is typical of the speed up for the majority of aggregations for a test data set of 63 million documents. The exact constants will depend on the data set size and the number of shards, but the form of the relationship between speed up and probability holds widely. For certain aggregations, the speed up may not
```

> Above is typical of the speed up for the majority of aggregations for a test data set of 63 million documents. The exact constants will depend on the data set size and the number of shards, but the form of the relationship between speed up and probability holds widely. For certain aggregations, the speed up may not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This graph is typical of the speed up for the majority of aggregations for a test data set of 63 million documents. The exact constants will depend on the data set size and the number of shards, but the form of the relationship between speed up and probability holds widely. For certain aggregations, the speed up may not
```

be as dramatic. These aggregations have some constant overhead unrelated to the number of documents seen. Even for
those aggregations, the speed improvements can be significant.

> This sample is generated by sampling values from the geometric distribution
> (`(1-p)^(k-1)*p`) at the provided `probability` (`p` in distribution equation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample set is generated by skipping documents using a geometric distribution
(`(1-p)^(k-1)*p`) with success probability being the provided `probability` (`p` in distribution equation).
```

The values returned from the distribution indicate how many documents to skip in

> the background. It follows that the expected success from the distribution is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the background. This is equivalent to selecting documents uniformly at random. It follows that the expected number of failures before a success is
```

> This sample set is generated by skipping documents using a geometric distribution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample set is generated by skipping documents using a geometric distribution
```

> `(1-p)/p`. For example, with the `"probability": 0.01`, the expected success (or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`(1-p)/p`. For example, with the `"probability": 0.01`, the expected number of failures (or
```

> (`(1-p)^(k-1)*p`) with success probability being the provided `probability` (`p` in distribution equation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(`(1-p)^(k-1)*p`) with success probability being the provided `probability` (`p` in the distribution equation).
```

average number of documents skipped) would be `99` with a variance of `9900`.
Consequently, if you had only 80 documents in your index or matched by your
filter, you would most likely receive no results.

image::images/aggregations/relative-error-vs-doc-count.png[Graph of the relative error by sampling probability and doc count,align="center"]

In the above image `p` is the probability provided to the aggregation, and `n` is the number of documents matched by whatever
query is provided. One can see the impact of outliers on `sum` and `mean`, but when many documents are still matched at
higher sampling rates, the relative error is still low.

> NOTE: This data is empirical and represents aggregations against a real-world dataset. The variance in your own data may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This represents the result of aggregations against a typical positively skewed APM data set which also has outliers in the upper tail. The linear dependence of the relative error on the sample size is found to hold widely, but the slope depends on the variation in the quantity being aggregated. As such, the variance in your own data may
```

> In the above image `p` is the probability provided to the aggregation, and `n` is the number of documents matched by whatever

Reviewer 2: Not mandatory, but I think it would be nice to move this paragraph before the image, so that it provides context  in advance.

If you move this paragraph, it needs minor changes like this:
```suggestion
In the following graph, `p` is the probability provided to the aggregation, and `n` is the number of documents matched by whatever
```

> query is provided. One can see the impact of outliers on `sum` and `mean`, but when many documents are still matched at

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
query is provided. You can see the impact of outliers on `sum` and `mean`, but when many documents are still matched at
```
